---
layout: post
title: "Cell profiler plugin for particle detection"
date: 2015-09-08 14:04:11
categories: [dispo, gmd]
pid: Y1516-S005
type: Engineering
contact: Xavier Descombes
---
       
Over the past decade, several observations have highlighted important connections between age-related degenerative diseases and the accumulation in the cell cytoplasm of large aggregates composed of RNAs and associated regulatory proteins. These pathological aggregates sequester regulatory factors, resulting in variety of physiological changes that eventually lead to cellular dysfunction. In this context, it is thus crucial to identify the factors that trigger the aggregation of RNAs and proteins, which are normally assembling into discrete particles. 
To identify genes regulating the assembly and the disassembly of RNA/protein complexes, the group of F.Besse (iBV, Nice) has started a genome-wide screen relying on high throughput microscopy.  The goal of this screen is to identify mutant conditions in which the properties (number, size, distribution…) of RNA/protein particles labeled by a fluorescent protein is altered. Automatic image analysis methods are required to quantitatively and statistically analyze images recovered in the screen, and to define classes of mutants. 
A first image pipeline has been elaborated using the open source software Cell Profiler to analyze these images (http://www.cellprofiler.org/).  This consists in nuclei detection and classification, cytoplasm detection and particle detection within the cytoplasm. This pipeline has shown some shortcuts, specially in the particle detection steps. 
The goal of this PFE is first to improve the accuracy of the classification plugin, and second to develop a Cell Profiler plugin for detecting particles based on the Multiple Births and Cut algorithm. These plugins will be implemented in Python language.
Candidates will work under the supervision of Xavier Descombes, in close collaboration with biologists from the Institute of Biology Valrose (iBV).

#### Compétences Requises
Python, image processing


#### Besoins Clients
A first image pipeline has been elaborated using the open source software Cell Profiler to analyze these images (http://www.cellprofiler.org/).  This consists in nuclei detection and classification, cytoplasm detection and particle detection within the cytoplasm. This pipeline has shown some shortcuts, specially in the particle detection steps. 

#### Résultats Attendus
The goal of this PFE is first to improve the accuracy of the classification plugin, and second to develop a Cell Profiler plugin for detecting particles based on the Multiple Births and Cut algorithm. These plugins will be implemented in Python language.

Likvrables : 2 plugin python
     

#### Informations Administratives
  * Contact : Xavier Descombes <xavier.descombes@inria.fr>
  * Identifiant sujet : `Y1516-S005`
  * Type : Engineering
  * Parcours Recommandés : GMD
     