---
layout: post
title: "SDR platform for the monitoring and analysis of (in)secure wireless communications"
date: 2016-09-14 20:00:41
categories: [dispo, al,caspar,iam]
pid: Y1516-S040
type: Engineering
contact: Yves ROUDIER
---
       
This project aims at developing a platform for detecting insecure wireless communications between communicating devices (mobile phones, watches, RFIDs, ...) and at experimenting using different wireless devices. The platform will then be used to experiment with different wirelessly communicating devices.

In recent years, we have seen the introduction of wireless protocols into many devices. In particular, the development of the Internet of Things (IoT) has generated many developments around radiofrequency identification and low-energy communication protocols. Such protocols however are not always secure and may be subject to attacks. We propose to follow a blackbox approach to studying such protocols.

This project aims at:
- experimenting with tools (e.g. GnuRadio) available for monitoring wireless communications on top of a simple Software Defined Radio (SDR) receiver in order to precisely understand their suitability or limitations. The criteria used will notably include the type of protocol, frequency used, range expected, etc.;
- capturing traces of live exchanges out of available devices (mobile phones, RFID tags, NFC tags, wearable computing devices, smart watches ...);
- analysing these traces, reverse engineering wireless protocols, and notably determining whether the communication is encrypted.
- partly automating such analyses for example through the extension of the available SDR software in order to detect and monitor similar communication patterns.

Time permitting, more complex analyses may be further explored with an SDR emitter in order to emulate an active device.

#### Compétences Requises
- C/C++ and/or Python knowledge
- Basic understanding of how cryptographic protocols work (mostly encryption)
- if possible, knowledge of some wireless protocols and/or in embedded systems

groups with students from different backgrounds as highlighted above are encouraged.


#### Besoins Clients
Our expectations are ultimately related to understanding hands-on to what extent an SDR receiver only approach may help find out weaknesses, and to what extent the human expertise may be automated with a simple approach.

#### Résultats Attendus
- short survey of available SDR software analysis tools
- traces documenting the experiments done
- analysis of the traces together with a survey of related wireless protocol security mechanisms
- extension of one SDR software (possibly GNU Radio)
     

#### Informations Administratives
  * Contact : Yves ROUDIER <Yves.Roudier@unice.fr>
  * Identifiant sujet : `Y1516-S040`
  * Type : Engineering
  * Parcours Recommandés : AL,CASPAR,IAM
     