---
layout: post
title: "Privacy protection through binary instrumentation"
date: 2016-09-14 20:45:00
categories: [oqp, caspar]
pid: Y1516-S042
type: Engineering
contact: Yves ROUDIER
students: Thibaud CANALE, Hanane Chttou El Malhi, Shanley GODWIN, Valéry ORESTE
group: 7
---
       
This project aims at experimenting with binary instrumentation technologies in order to assess whether privacy leaks may result from executing third-party software as well as to prevent these leaks from happening by introducing protections into the application.

The students will firstly familiarize themselves with tools that are available to perform such a binary instrumentation. The Intel architecture will be used in priority, as there exist instrumentation libraries like Pin and/or Libdft or Dytan readily available. Depending on the background of the students, Java bytecode or Android (Dalvik) bytecode may be envisaged as an 
alternative "binary" platform, but appropriate tools will then have to be found or possibly written by the group.

The project will aim at three increasingly complex objectives:
- producing privacy / information flow logs based on a simple specification (for instance a configuration file);
- dynamically tracing the information flows in the application, for instance using data tainting. The information flows to be monitored will be determined based on a more complex specification consisting in the definition of platform- or application-specific security rules to be enforced. Such monitoring policy rulesets should be modularly composable as much as possible
- introducing data retention mechanims. Such mechanisms will implement a simple access or even usage control model to be selected for the disclosure of privacy-sensitive data sources.

The tool developed will be tested with toy examples, then applied to existing applications that will be selected because of their notorious privacy leaks.

#### Compétences Requises
- C/C++ programming (or possibly Java programming)
- understanding of privacy issues and security policies (notably access control and/or usage control)


#### Besoins Clients
We plan to review existing applications and if possible produce an assessment of their behavior therefore the monitoring part might be more developed than the protection mechanism part if the students show some interest towards that approach.

#### Résultats Attendus
We expect to produce a small instrumentation tool with traces that would be easily analyzed. Time permitting, if results can be obtained out of enough third-party software, the project might even lead to contributing to a scientific paper publication.
     

#### Informations Administratives
  * Contact : Yves ROUDIER <Yves.Roudier@unice.fr>
  * Identifiant sujet : `Y1516-S042`
  * Type : Engineering
  * Parcours Recommandés : CASPAR
     