---
layout: post
title: "CRITICAL SYSTEM COMPUTER AIDED DESIGN:  SIMULATION OF SYNCHRONOUS AUTOMATA IN AN ASYNCHRONOUS ENVIRONMENT TO VALIDATE CRITICAL SOFTWARE COMPONENTS."
date: 2016-09-15 16:25:35
categories: [dispo, al,iam]
pid: Y1516-S045
type: Engineering
contact: Jean-Yves Tigli
---
       
Critical systems very often embeds synchronous systems into an asynchronous environment. Verification of synchronous models is well-known. However when dealing with asynchronous aspects, the main problematic is to check if synchronous models still retain important properties as part of an asynchronous environment. We propose for this PFE to encapsulate synchronous system models (such as Mealy finite state machine) into a model described using the DEVS formalism in order to simulate the synchronous model behavior in an asynchronous environment. In a second part we'll evaluate  the robustness of the simulation results with tests on different component oriented software platforms. This PFE is a research one in collaboration of University of Corte. It may follow with a internship period.

The evolution of information sciences has resulted in an extensive integration of embedded components in systems which can be used in different applications areas such as telecommunications, manufactur-ing, medical applications, etc. Such embedded systems are very often critical systems that have an con-tinuous interaction with other systems. This continuous interaction is a major problematic when deal-ing with the validation and verification of such systems.  Verification of synchronous models is well-known. However when dealing with asynchronous aspects, the main problematic is to check if syn-chronous models still retain important properties as part of an asynchronous environment. We propose to encapsulate synchronous system models (such as Mealy finite state machine) into a model described using the DEVS (Discrete Event system Specification) formalism in order to simulate the behavior of a synchronous model in an asynchronous environment. An implementation part is performed using the DEVSimPy (DEVS Simulator in Python language) framework allowing the develop and simulate DEVS models. 

DEVS (Discrete EVent system Specification) (Zeigler,Kin,Prahoffer, 2000) has been introduced as an abstract formalism for the modeling of discrete-event systems, and allows a complete independence from the simulator using the notion of abstract simulator.  As in general systems theory, a DEVS model contains a set of states and transition functions that are triggered by the simulator. DEVSimPy (Capoc-chi, Santucci, Poggi and Nicolai, 2011) is an open Source project (under GPL V.3 license) supported by the SPE Group of the University of Corsica.With DEVSimPy, users have a GUI to model and simulate DEVS models implemented in Python language using the Py(P)DEVS API developed by the Modelling, Simulation and Design lab of the McGill University. 
 

The students in this PFE, will study how to encapsulate a classic automaton into an asynchronous environment using the DEVS formalism that involves 3 phases : (1) definition of a Mealy automata ; (2) automatic transformation of a Mealy automata into the DEVSimPy environment ; (3) insertion of the previously defined synchronous model into an asynchronous environment based on the interconnection with a timer DEVS atomic model and a Strategy atomic model  (which will allow to implement different kinds of Strategies to deal with events management); (4) analysis of the results allowing to validate the potential strategies by comparing the results of the simulations performed considering the synchronous automata alone  (phase 2) and inserted into an asynchronous environment (phase 3). Finally, they will evaluate the robustness of the simulation results with tests on different component oriented software platforms. The final contribution of this work will be a multi-criteria evaluation of the quality of the overall methodology and suggestions to improve it.

#### Compétences Requises
- Some knowledges about Formal models and finite state automaton  
- DEVs and synchronous automaton will be study during the project.   


#### Besoins Clients
- Etude Bibliographique 
- Campagne de test sous DEVSimpPy de la simulation de la machine exécution asynchrone qui héberge l'automate synchrone. 
- Campagne de mesure  sur de réelles plateformes logicielles orientées composant et de comparison avec les tests de simlation
- Analyse des résultats obtenus  et suggestions pour une amélioration du modèle de la machine d'exécution.

#### Résultats Attendus
- Analyse de la qualité de la simulation 
- Suggestions pour une amélioration du modèle de la machine d'exécution.

- Préparation d'une publication scientifique sur ces travaux en collaboration avec l'encadreur
     

#### Informations Administratives
  * Contact : Jean-Yves Tigli <tigli@unice.fr>
  * Identifiant sujet : `Y1516-S045`
  * Type : Engineering
  * Parcours Recommandés : AL,IAM
     