---
layout: post
title: "NavDashCam: Secure and Communicating Video System"
date: 2016-09-14 22:50:52
categories: [dispo, caspar,iam]
pid: Y1516-S043
type: Engineering
contact: Yves ROUDIER
---
       
This project aims at developing a securely communicating video camera, also acting as a tamper-proof blackbox archiving video rushes from the nearby environment of a vehicle, as well as a sensor for navigation purposes.

In the context of communicating robotic platforms (notably exploration drones and rovers), video recording and transmission is often an important functionality that is today mostly implemented using analog video. While live transmission is easy, recording what has happened when such a platform is operated autonomously in a remote location is quite hard and inflexible. Beyond remote control, video has also become used as a sensor for navigation as for instance exhibited by vacuum cleaner robots like the Dyson 360 Eye.

In vehicles too, video has become increasingly useful as a blackbox (dashcams), or as a way to sense the environment surrounding the car in places which the driver's eye cannot reach. Such cameras have also become active protection devices for recording accidents in parking lots. The advent of connected cars will make it easy to access such video sources, for instance to detect and deter car theft.

Unfortunately, in both cases the videos recorded or transmitted are rarely protected in terms of confidentiality and even military or police video systems have been showed to suffer from such issues. Video disclosure may also generate privacy issues in search & rescue operations. The move towards digital video however makes it easier to process, and notably encrypt. This project aims at developing a proof of concept of the feasibility of video encryption even on top of a resource-constrained, hobbyist-grade platform.

The students will develop the prototype of a communicating camera enabling:
- full size, realtime video encryption on the fly and its subsequent recording on a local flash memory
- reduced size video or frame transmission, with encryption, upon reception of an authenticated request, for instance over a radio link.
- local and temporary decryption of video extracts and some basic image processing for navigation purposes

The project will be developed on top of a Raspberry Pi platform (2 or 3). The students are expected to implement realtime encryption using GPU programming (in OpenGL). The encryption will rely on a one-time pad scheme. Key generation and handling will be part of the study.

Additional cryptographic mechanisms will have to be developed for on demand decryption of frames and secure communication handling. Such functions will be implemented separately using multithreaded programming in order to make it easier to implement navigation functions with availability guarantees.

This work will take place in the framework of an ongoing collaboration with Tullio Tanzi, from Telecom ParisTech.

#### Compétences Requises
- C/C++ programming
- system programming, threads
- If possible, knowledge in GPU programming


#### Besoins Clients
This project aims at prototyping GPU based cryptography in a very constrained environment and in the longer term developing software libraries for generalizing such solutions.

#### Résultats Attendus
- state of the art about GPU based cryptography programming
- prototype of connected camera software for Raspberry Pi
- performance benchmarks
     

#### Informations Administratives
  * Contact : Yves ROUDIER <Yves.Roudier@unice.fr>
  * Identifiant sujet : `Y1516-S043`
  * Type : Engineering
  * Parcours Recommandés : CASPAR,IAM
     