---
layout: post
title: "Static Analysis Platform for Security Certification"
date: 2017-09-20 19:06:31
categories: [dispo, al,caspar]
pid: Y1718-S042
type: Engineering
contact: Yves ROUDIER
---
       
This project aims at completing the development of a toolchain for the security certification of programs with respect to cybersecurity threats. Concretely, it will first consist in developing a translation tool between the program dependence graph of an application (as computed by the JOANA static analysis tool) and a labeled transition system in the format of the CADP/EVALUATOR platform. It will then consist in testing that translation with examples of non-compliant software.

This project aims at completing a toolchain for the security certification of programs. Software engineering organizations like OWASP and the CERT have defined best practices for developing software but these recommendations are only verified by hand. We are currently in the process of implementing a toolchain for verifying at least part of these recommendations automatically through static analysis.

The students will firstly familiarize themselves with the tools used (JOANA, CADP) and especially with JOANA’s PDG (program dependence graph) data structure and with CADP’s LTS (labeled transition system) format.

The work will then consist in selecting the information available in the PDG and resulting from the static analysis of a program and in encoding them into LTS transitions. Finally, this translation will be verified using examples and certification policies.

We have developed a few toy examples that will help start with this translation process. Further examples will need to be developed for more complex programs. Depending on the time available and interest, the students may introduce specific security-related attributes obtained from further analyses of the PDG (like the level of classification of an attribute) into the LTS structure.


#### Compétences Requises
Java programming



     

#### Besoins Clients
We firstly expect the development of a translation tool for encoding security-relevant information of a PDG into a transition system usable by CADP’s model-checker. This tool will be a prototype, meaning that we expect that it may crash on a number of programs but that will provide us with a proof of concept. We further expect this prototype to be a tool to explore certification policies as well to write further  examples of non-compliant programs.

#### Résultats Attendus
- prototype of a translation process between JOANA’s PDG and CADP/EVALUATOR
- report describing the algorithm used for the translation and documenting the data structures of the tools
- experiments with the provided examples
- development of further examples (and possibly security certification policies) and/or experiments with real-world programs.

#### Références

  * [http://pp.ipd.kit.edu/projects/joana/](http://pp.ipd.kit.edu/projects/joana/)
  * [https://github.com/joana-team/joana](https://github.com/joana-team/joana)
  * [http://cadp.inria.fr/](http://cadp.inria.fr/)
  * [http://cadp.inria.fr/man/evaluator.html](http://cadp.inria.fr/man/evaluator.html)

#### Informations Administratives
  * Contact : Yves ROUDIER <Yves.Roudier@unice.fr>
  * Identifiant sujet : `Y1718-S042`
  * Type : Engineering
  * Parcours Recommandés : AL,CASPAR
  * Équipe: SPARKS

     