---
layout: post
title: "Deep Speech Recognition in noisy environment"
date: 2018-09-09 23:44:50
categories: [dispo, sd]
pid: Y1819-S034
type: Engineering
contact: Frederic Precioso
---
       
Speech recognition (or the recognition of a few voice commands, about twenty for example in a car) in a noisy environment or with an echo (i.e. the device must continue to listen to the user while playing music at the same time) is a real challenge that will be addressed in this project.

Context:
Speech recognition (or the recognition of a few voice commands, about twenty for example) in a noisy environment or with an echo (i.e. the device must continue to listen to the user while playing music at the same time) is a real challenge. The current classic approach is to concatenate several audio processes: 
http://www.alango.com/speech-recognition-enhancement-s.php#Block

Block #1 (blue block on the schema):  A classic audio processing algorithm for denoising/de-reverbing with one or more microphone (up to 7 sometimes)
Block #2 (grey block on the schema):  A speech recognition algorithm (trained on utterances without noise).

This leads to use a lot of microphones, to use a lot of CPU power and to complexify the implementation. 

The project consists of studying: 
•	the possibility of training a system to recognize the speech in a noisy environment (a signal noise ratio negative) in such a way that one can get rid of the noise suppression chain upstream (no Block # 1)
•	the solution will have to remain less complex in terms of CPU than the two current audio processes.

As a “toy application” we will evaluate the algorithm proposed in the project on journalist commentaries for soccer games.

We will evaluate the project in different real contexts: smartphone with noisy environment, car with noisy environment.

This project could lead to an internship at NXP in Mougins.

Technical tools: Python and/or C++

Industrial supervisor: Laurent Pilati, NXP 

References
D. Amodei et al. 2016. Deep speech 2: end-to-end speech recognition in English and mandarin. In Proceedings of the 33rd International Conference on International Conference on Machine Learning - Volume 48 (ICML'16), Maria Florina Balcan and Kilian Q. Weinberger (Eds.), Vol. 48. JMLR.org 173-182.

E. Battenberg et al., "Exploring neural transducers for end-to-end speech recognition," 2017 IEEE Automatic Speech Recognition and Understanding Workshop (ASRU), Okinawa, 2017, pp. 206-213.

Sriram, A., Jun, H., Satheesh, S., & Coates, A. (2017). Cold fusion: Training seq2seq models together with language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:1708.06426.

Li, J., Ye, G., Zhao, R., Droppo, J., & Gong, Y. (2017, December). Acoustic-to-word model without OOV. In Automatic Speech Recognition and Understanding Workshop (ASRU), 2017 IEEE (pp. 111-117). IEEE.

Sriram, A., Jun, H., Gaur, Y., & Satheesh, S. (2017). Robust Speech Recognition Using Generative Adversarial Networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1711.01567.



#### Compétences Requises
Python definitely
C++ appreciated
Machine Learning knowledge required, Deep Learning would be a plus



     

#### Besoins Clients
One of the target situation is to understand commands inside a car while the radio is on. The solution must run on embedded platforms such as a smartphone for instance. One ultimate experiments would be to test the solution implemented on a smartphone in this situation.
Depending on the quality of the group working on that project we may investigate how the proposed solution is running efficiently on NXP embedded platforms

#### Résultats Attendus
Bibliographic report on the current deep learning based solutions for speech recognition in noisy environment
Source code of two solutions implemented to solve the question
Final report on the project including extensive tests of the solution

#### Références

  * [https://arxiv.org/abs/1512.02595](https://arxiv.org/abs/1512.02595)
  * [https://arxiv.org/abs/1707.07413](https://arxiv.org/abs/1707.07413)
  * [https://arxiv.org/abs/1708.06426](https://arxiv.org/abs/1708.06426)
  * [https://arxiv.org/abs/1711.01567](https://arxiv.org/abs/1711.01567)

#### Informations Administratives
  * Contact : Frederic Precioso <precioso@unice.fr>
  * Identifiant sujet : `Y1819-S034`
  * Effectif : entre 2 et 3 étudiant(e)s
  * Parcours Recommandés : SD
  * Équipe: SPARKS

     