---
layout: post
title: "TitreTest"
date: 2015-08-18 22:26:13
categories: [dispo, al, iam]
pid: Y1415-S001
type: Research
contact: TestPrénom TestNom
---
       
1. Field of Description

The present disclosure relates, in general, to computer-implemented methods, and systems performing such methods for determining and managing counterparty credit risk, and, more particularly, to improved methods and systems for determining potential future exposure (PFE) in a more computationally efficient manner. Such PFE determination methods and systems may be used to enhance operation of counterparty credit risk management systems or tools, e.g., systems and software products used in management of exotic derivative products.

2. Relevant Background

Counterparty credit risk or exposure is a measure of the amount that would be lost in the event that a counterparty to a financial contract defaults. Contracts that are privately negotiated between counterparties, i.e., over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives, are subject to counterparty credit risk. In other words, counterparty credit risk is the risk that a counterparty in a financial contract will fail to meet its contractual obligations.

More and more exotic financial products or contracts are being created within the financial industry, but investing parties need to be able to define their liquidity and financial reserves including their counterparty credit risk to comply with financial regulations and to make prudent use of their investment assets. Without a good determination of counterparty credit risk, investors often will retain an overly large amount of funds in reserve to provide assurance that in the event of market crash or widespread economic contraction they have adequate liquidity.

In this regard, potential future exposure (PFE) calculations are used to set counterparty credit limits and to determine economic and regulatory capital requirements. PFE is sometimes defined as the maximum expected credit exposure over a specified period of time calculated at some level of confidence. PFE, hence, is a measure of counterparty credit risk and may be calculated by evaluating existing trades done against the possible market prices in the future during the lifetime of transactions. The maximum credit exposure indicated by the PFE analysis is an upper bound on a confidence interval for future credit exposure. Credit risk managers have in the past focused on current exposure management and collateral management. A problem with this focus, though, is that it places emphasis on the present and fails to provide an acceptable indication of credit risk at some point in the future. Because losses from credit risk take a relatively long time to evolve, a more useful measure of exposure is potential exposure or PFE. PFE is not like current exposure as it exists in the future and, therefore, represents a range or distribution of outcomes rather than a single point in time estimate.

While PFE determinations are useful in determining counterparty credit risk and setting related credit limits, there are a number of limitations or challenges to its use with all existing financial products and yet to be created investment vehicles. PFE calculations typically require the simulation of exposure to a counterparty at a number of future time points in many risk factor scenarios. For simple products admitting to closed form solutions for pricing, the value at a future exposure date can be directly calculated from the simulated risk factor values. However, for more exotic products such as many derivative products, the pricing has to be performed using numerical methods, and the determination of PFE can become very computationally demanding and often impractical. As noted above, this can force risk managers to avoid such exotic products or to limit their use in setting counterparty credit limits and to insure compliance with financial regulations regarding liquidity.

Hence, there is a need in the financial industry for tools and products for better determining PFE. Preferably such tools and products would not be as computationally demanding as existing methods and would be useful with all or at least more of the exotic products (e.g., exotic derivative products and the like) presently available and even yet to be offered by financial institutions.
SUMMARY

To address the above and other issues, a potential future exposure (PFE) determination method is provided for use in counterparty credit risk management systems and products (e.g., software suites or the like). The method or technique that is used for calculating or determining PFE combines aspects of nested Monte Carlo simulation with approximate regression techniques. Hence, the method may be thought of as a hybrid resimulation-regression approach for performing PFE calculations. The method is a computationally efficient process for performing PFE calculations, which may be part of an overall counterparty credit risk management method, and the method is well suited for use with exotic investment products including derivative products.

In the past, PFE calculations for exotic derivative products were attempted by using a nested Monte Carlo simulation. However, this provided to be very computationally expensive or demanding and was not practical or even feasible in a production environment (e.g., for managing counterparty credit risk on an ongoing basis). In some cases, approximations were applied in an attempt to improve performance of a system computing PFE. However, there are many situations where the approximations broke down or led to large errors in the calculated PFE.

The new PFE-determination method taught herein combines aspects of the computationally expensive, nested Monte Carlo simulation with approximate regression techniques. By combining the inventor-identified and selected aspects of these two techniques, the PFE-determination method addresses the problem associated with large errors that can occur with the approximate regression approach and significantly improves upon the computational efficiency provided by the nested Monte Carlo approach.

Interestingly, the inventor arrived at the new PFE-determination method during concurrent investigation of the performance of the nested Monte Carlo approach and the approximate regression approach, which resulted in the inventor recognizing that the two approaches could be effectively combined to produce a new PFE-determination method. It is likely that others in the field failed to discover the new PFE-determination method in part because most people working on PFE calculations did not consider using the nested Monte Carlo approach for PFE calculations because it was generally considered to be too computationally intensive to be useful in most if not all settings. However, the combined approach provided in the new PFE-determination method significantly increases performance to make it computationally feasible and practical for inclusion in a counterparty credit risk management system or software product.

More particularly, a method is provided for generating a potential future exposure (PFE) profile in a more computationally efficient and practical manner. The method includes providing a PFE-determination engine, e.g., with a processor executing code or instructions accessible in a computer-readable medium causing the processor and/or computing device with such a processor to perform functions that make it a special purpose computer. The method includes, with the PFE-determination engine, generating PFE scenarios for a portfolio of trades stored in memory at a number of exposure dates. Then, with the PFE-determination engine, the method includes calculating, for each of the trades in the portfolio at each of the exposure dates, expected future values. Further, the method includes calculating exposure of the portfolio based on the calculated expected future values and, then, generating a PFE profile using a distribution of the exposure at each of the exposure dates. The method may further include using the generated PFE profile to perform regulatory reporting, to determine capital requirements for the portfolio of trades, and/or to set credit limits with a counterparty associated with the portfolio of trades

In some implementations, the step of calculating of the expected future values includes calculating hybrid regression estimates for the expected future values. Then, the method may also include using a combined estimator using the hybrid regression estimates along with data from a full resimulation estimate for the expected future values to provide the calculated expected future values.

In many cases, the trades include a number of exotic products such as derivatives or interest rate financial products requiring a number of variables for pricing at a future date. Particularly, the step of calculating the expected future values of these exotics may be performed using a numerical method with an inner pricing model. In some cases, the numerical method includes performing a Monte Carlo simulation.

It will be understood that use of the PFE-determination method taught herein can be provided in a software product or package (e.g., that may be provided in a counterparty credit risk management system or other special purpose computer implementation). The use of the PFE-determination method will allow investment or financial institutions to include trade types that may not be currently supported in their counterparty credit risk calculations. Also, those skilled in the financial product and risk management arts will readily recognize and understand that the method taught herein is not limited to use in determining PFE. The techniques may be applied to perform calculations similar to calculating PFE such as, but not limited to, credit value adjustment (CVA) and initial margin (IM) calculations.

#### Compétences Requises
skills


#### Références

  * Équipe: team
  * [http://bib1.com](http://bib1.com)
  * [http://bib2.com](http://bib2.com)

#### Informations Administratives
  * Contact : TestPrénom TestNom <mail@foo.com>
  * Identifiant sujet : `Y1415-S001`
  * Type : Research
  * Parcours Recommandés : AL, IAM
     